v0.6.0 release notes (#253)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/releases/_index.en.md

+++
date = 2020-08-24T11:35:16+02:00
title = "Releases"
pre = "<b>5. </b>"
weight = 25
+++

## v0.6.0 Improved Submariner High Availability and various Lighthouse enhancements

> This release mainly focused on support for headless Services in Lighthouse,
> as well as improving Submariner's High Availability (HA).

> * **Lighthouse** has been enhanced to:

Reviewer: @mangelajo Are you planning to include that "Service Discovery" will be enabled by default while joining clusters?

Author: L30 :-) may be I shall move it to this section instead?

Author: Done.

+++
date = 2020-08-24T11:35:16+02:00
title = "Releases"
pre = "<b>5. </b>"
weight = 25
+++

## v0.6.0 Improved Submariner High Availability and various Lighthouse enhancements

> > This release mainly focused on support for headless Services and StatefulSets in Lighthouse,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This release mainly focused on support for headless Services in Lighthouse,
```

> as well as improving Submariner's High Availability (HA).

* **Lighthouse** has been enhanced to:
  * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity, and now does not announce
    IP addresses for disconnected remote clusters.
  * Support headless Services
  * StatefulSets

> * **subctl** auto-detects the cluster-id from the kubeconfig file information when possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **subctl** auto-detects the cluster ID from the kubeconfig file information when possible.
```

> * HA improvements for *Submariner*. Graceful shutdown of Submariner Pods which will help in improving the downtime during Gateway failover. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Submariner Pods now shutdown gracefully and do proper cleanup which reduces the downtime during Gateway failover. 
```

> * Minimum **K8s** version is now 1.17, as we begin support for EndpointSlices in Lighthouse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Minimum **K8s** version is now 1.17, as we begin support for EndpointSlices in Lighthouse.
```

> * HostNetwork to remote Service support fixes for AWS Cluster. [Submariner Bug 736][Bug-736]
> 
> 
> [Bug-736][https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/issues/736]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* HostNetwork to remote Service connectivity fixes for AWS Cluster ([Issue 736](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/issues/736)).
```

+++
date = 2020-08-24T11:35:16+02:00
title = "Releases"
pre = "<b>5. </b>"
weight = 25
+++

## v0.6.0 Improved Submariner High Availability and various Lighthouse enhancements

> This release mainly focused on support for headless Services in Lighthouse,
> as well as improving Submariner's High Availability (HA).

{{% notice warning %}}
  The DNS domains have been updated from \<service\>.\<namespace\>.svc.**supercluster**.local to

>   \<service\>.\<namespace\>.svc.**clusterset**.local according to align with the Kubernetes MultiCluster SIG poll.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  \<service\>.\<namespace\>.svc.**clusterset**.local to align with the change in Kubernetes MultiCluster Service API.
```

The poll ultimately doesn’t matter, the API does ;-).

  Both domains will be supported for 0.6.0 but 0.7.0 will remove support for **supercluster**.local.
  Please update your deployments and applications.
{{% /notice %}}

* **Lighthouse** has been enhanced to:
  * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity so as not to announce the IP addresses for disconnected remote clusters.

>   * Support headless Services

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Support headless Services for non-gloablnet deployments. Currently globalnet + headless services is not supported.
```

  * Be aware of a Service's backend Pods so as not to announce IP addresses for Services that have no active pods.
  * Use Round Robin IP resolution for services available in multiple clusters.
  * Enable Service discovery by default for **subctl** deployments.
* **subctl** auto-detects the cluster ID from the kubeconfig file information when possible.
* The Submariner Pods now shutdown gracefully and do proper cleanup which reduces the downtime during Gateway failover.

> * Minimum Kubernetes version is now 1.17.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The operator now automatically exports Prometheus metrics; these integrate seamlessly with OpenShift Prometheus if user workload monitoring is enabled, and can be included in any other Prometheus setup.
* Minimum Kubernetes version is now 1.17.
```

> * HostNetwork to remote Service connectivity fixes for AWS Cluster ([Issue 736](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/issues/736)).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* HostNetwork to remote Service connectivity fixes for AWS clusters ([Issue 736](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/issues/736)).
```

> * HostNetwork to remote Service connectivity fixes for AWS Cluster ([Issue 736](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/issues/736)).

Author: ```suggestion
* HostNetwork to remote Service connectivity fixes for AWS clusters ([Issue 736](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/issues/736)).
```

+++
date = 2020-08-24T11:35:16+02:00
title = "Releases"
pre = "<b>5. </b>"
weight = 25
+++

## v0.6.0 Improved Submariner High Availability and various Lighthouse enhancements

> This release mainly focused on support for headless Services in Lighthouse,
> as well as improving Submariner's High Availability (HA).

{{% notice warning %}}
  The DNS domains have been updated from %service.%namespace.svc.supercluster.local to

>   %service.%namespace.svc.clusterset.local according to U/S K8s MultiCluster SIG poll.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  %service.%namespace.svc.clusterset.local to align with the Kubernetes MultiCluster SIG.
```

  Both domains will be supported for 0.6.0, but 0.7.0 will remove support for supercluster.local,

>   please update your deployments and applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Please update your deployments and applications.
```

{{% /notice %}}

* **Lighthouse** has been enhanced to:

>   * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity, and now does not announce.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity, and now does not announce
```

Author: ooppsie

    IP addresses for disconnected remote clusters.

>   * Support headless Services-

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Support Headless Services
```

>   * Support headless Services for non-gloablnet deployments. Currently globalnet + headless services is not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Support headless Services for non-**Globalnet** deployments. Support for **Globalnet** will be available in a future release.
```

  * Be aware of pods' availability for a service, and now doesn't announce IP addresses for services that have zero active pods.

>   * Round Robin IP resolution for services available in multiple clusters.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Use Round Robin IP resolution for services available in multiple clusters.
```

>   * Service discovery is enabled by default for **subctl** deployments.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Enable Service discovery by default for **subctl** deployments.
```

weight = 25
+++

## v0.6.0 Improved Submariner High Availability and various Lighthouse enhancements
> This release mainly focused on support for headless Services and StatefulSets in Lighthouse,
> as well as improving Submariner's High Availability (HA).

* **Lighthouse** has been enhanced to:
  * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity, and now does not announce
    IP addresses for disconnected remote clusters.
  * Support headless Services

>   * StatefulSets

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Be aware of pods' availability for a service, and now doesn't announce IP addresses for services that have zero active pods
```
StatefulSets not yet, will likely come in 0.6.1

Author: Why 0.6.1? we have released 0.6.0-rc0... we can wait to release 0.6.0, right?, lets talk on team meeting :)

Reviewer 2: We decided on 0.7.0 for StatefulSets.

weight = 25
+++

> ## v0.6.0 Lighthouse improvements

Reviewer 5: MD linting is failing because you need a blank line after this heading.

> ## v0.6.0 Lighthouse improvements

Author: :+1: I missed that

> This release is mainly focused in support for headless for Services and StatefulSets in Lighthouse,
> and A/P HA enhancements and general stability for Submariner.

* **Lighthouse** has been enhanced to:

>   * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity, and now does not announce
>     IP addresses or disconnected remote clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Be aware of the local cluster Gateway connectivity, and now does not announce
    IP addresses for disconnected remote clusters.
```

  * Support Headless services
  * Stateful sets
* **subctl** auto-detects the cluster-id from the kubeconfig file information when possible.

> * HA improvements for *Submariner*, the shutdown path of all agents has been analized, and
>   fixed in some cases, improving the shutdown when an agent needs to be moved to a different
>   node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HA improvements for *Submariner*. Graceful shutdown of Submariner Pods which will help in improving the downtime during Gateway failover. 
```

* Minimum **K8s** version is now 1.17, as we begin support for EndpointSlices in Lighthouse
* Multiple submariner bugfixes since 0.5.0

> 

Reviewer: * Hostnetwork to remoteService support fixes for AWS Cluster.

Notes: This is just for info. We fixed few edge cases where the hostnetwork to remoteService use-case was broken on AWS cluster. This is fixed via the following PRs.
Merged: https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/pull/737
Merged: https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner/pull/738

Author: Done.
